hi Steven welcome to the Brighton art
gallery I want to just ask you a bit
about the Commission you did here when
you're asked to come to somewhere like
Brighton to do a series of photos how on
earth do you start the first thing
you're trying to shake off what you
already know or what you think you know
based on maybe pictures or small visits
you've had I think that was the toughest
thing for me is shaking that off
completely zeroing your mind and I guess
I've had the luxury of being able over
the past ten years though just to feel
compelled to make a body of work and
make but this was to make body of work
in a certain place within a certain time
and parameters for the people of
Brighton made in brighter so at first I
was thinking a lot about that and they
were all quite detached ideas because I
don't know Brighton I don't really know
many people here so I didn't want
definitely didn't want to come and do a
body of work that said this is bright
and I think I just simply wouldn't be
able to leave that because I so it I
have I knew it was going to be a series
where I was stepping back and trying to
be steered by the place in some way so
this a bit about this you talk about the
baggage of your previous knowledge yeah
can you just talk about that well I
think there is national and regional
visual the place places that visually
represented and I think often these
things are inherited and carry over for
years and years and years doesn't
necessarily mean that is Mary's with a
place at all sometimes I think these
things are in place to give echoes of
the past but it doesn't so often I think
we can look for how we imagine places to
be versus how they are sort of you know
or London being Big Ben red buses
Harrods and punks and suicides punched
and Julie's bingo so I think I think I
was deaf really wanted to shake off that
and just be open and start from zero and
can you explain therefore what you ended
up doing just allowing the place to try
and speak for itself and really try and
extract what a place feels like and in
the case of the Brighton series I
decided to kind of lit
scoop up and collect particles objects
pressed and dried plants see live
insects and really try and invite
Brighton in so its Brighton in Brighton
so it's bright and within your camera
yeah
and using the camera as a kind of rather
than a descriptive told I was almost
looking at it it's more of a Hoover just
sucking at Brighton richly trying to
encapsulate Brighton within itself so I
see from the photos you've literally
taken things just from the beach or from
all of Brighton no it's all of Brighton
and I've just been collecting all sorts
of objects often from the vicinity where
I was making work sometimes just
collecting them putting them in the
camera that I felt would marry with what
I was photographing if you even put in
things like ants and small crabs is that
right that's right yeah sort of
creatures and these were alive yes so
whatever you're putting in the camera in
the case of insects or small animals as
of walking across the film emotion as
the shutter opens and closes with the
objects sitting on the emotion with a
lensless process you get this absolute
amazing clarity so even sort of the
hairs on an aunt's leg or then you can
play with that and dial that lens itself
out of focus so in one image the
pictures pulling in so many different
directions because scale is completely
out the window
even one of the first things I did his
by a fishing rod and I was fishing and
catching quite a lot of mackerels a lot
of mackerel yes and even they ended up
in the camera as you get a macro low
it's very bigger much bigger than you
put it in the camera well what I did is
barbecued it first cut off the tail put
the bones in the camera so there's these
translucent macro bones I love the ideas
or pulling the subject out of sees I
know you've got the camera with you can
just show us so you can explain in the
film is running along here yeah the film
plane is here so in order to have
objects and things lying on top of the
film emotion that literally the way you
have seals so I've created this mirror
device with this front face really high
quality
so and in-between frames you'd sort of
rock the camera if it and shake it quite
hard if there's no living creatures in
there there was even one occasion where
I had the camera back open I was loading
the camera and a fly actually flew into
the camera which was probably one of the
most exciting parts of Syria so that it
felt like the word have got around in
the insect world you have to remember
because when you're adding things to the
camera you're obscuring as much as you
are adding so you mentally you're sort
of leaning or composing an image but the
very core key part of the picture may be
obscured you're steering the work but
you also have no idea where the pictures
are going to land so you've got the
camera you've put these objects in what
is it then you actually take the
photographs of the couple with the
objects in your camera it went off in so
many different directions to the point
where I was even asking members of the
public if they would like to add their
own elements from my selection of
elements to the portrait I was about to
take of them at first I was restricted
as you mentioned by size and later for
actually there shouldn't be any reason
why I am restricted by size you could
even put a double-decker bus in the
camera so what I did in order to do that
is start working on e6 slide film
photographing things and subjects that I
was interested but couldn't squeeze in
the camera process the film cut them out
so they too so bigger objects could find
their way in you must have had hundreds
of these photographs we have a criteria
did you use to try and select one time
the pictures that worked for me was
slightly there's an there's a harmony
but there's also something bit of a blip
or a bit of tension as well so you spent
three or four weeks walking around
cycling around shooting the pictures
here what do you think you've learned
about Brighton this time I think the
things that I've noticed they're silly
things like there's enormous amounts of
tattoos in Brighton and some
particularly good ones I think that's
why I noticed but that's probably
because I was photographing during the
summer months
pink is probably one of the favorite
colors or color that over to associate
with Brighton there's a lot of carpet
shops and Hoover shops really big in
Brighton it's amazing how you realise
how restricted you are with straight
photographing and once you start to open
this tiny door it can go in all sorts of
directions and the weird thing was of
when working like this intensely for
five or six weeks then I went to make
work with a normal camera back in London
and it was so it was like where you're
it's like when you go ice skating or air
roller skates for a day and you suddenly
take your skates off and start walking
you it's strange how quickly you get it
to know that way of working I really
enjoyed that very much well we've
enjoyed your work
thank you very much Steven thank you
you